.\" Manpage for dnsd.
.de Vb \" Begin verbatim text
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve \" End verbatim text
.ft R
.fi
..

.TH DNSD 8 "26 Sep 2020" "1.0" "dnsd man page"
.SH NAME
dnsd \- \fBD\fRo \fBN\fRot \fBS\fRleep \fBD\fRNS

.SH SYNOPSIS
.Vb 10
\&Usage:
\&        dnsd [option] ...
\&Options:
\&        --help
\&        --version
\&        -v4 <IP>
\&        -v6 <IP>
\&        -pudp <port>
\&        -ptcp <port>
\&        -f <zone_file>
.Ve

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBdnsd\fR is a fast, secure and lightweight authoritative DNS daemon written
in pure C.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4
Print a help message describing most common dnsd's command-line switches and a short description.
.IP "\fB\-\-version\fR" 4
Display the version of dnsd and exit.
.IP "\fB\-v4\fR" 4
Set the listening IPv4 address, defaults to 127.0.0.1.
.IP "\fB\-v6\fR" 4
Set the listening IPv6 address, defaults ::1.
.IP "\fB\-pudp\fR" 4
Set the listening UDP port, defaults to 53.
.IP "\fB\-ptcp\fR" 4
Set the listening TCP port, defaults to 53.
.IP "\fB\-f\fR" 4
Set the zone file path, defaults to \fI/etc/dnsd/dnsd.zone\fR, see \fIdnsd.zone(5)\fR for more information on the used format.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.IP " (0) \fB\s-1ERR_OK\s0\fR" 4
 No error, everything ok.
.IP " (1) \fB\s-1ERR_NOMEM\s0\fR" 4
 Out-of-memory error.
.IP " (2) \fB\s-1ERR_NOENT\s0\fR" 4
 No such file or directory.
.IP " (3) \fB\s-1ERR_PARSE_BADCNT\s0\fR" 4
 Bad value count in zone file line.
.IP " (4) \fB\s-1ERR_PARSE_BADVAL\s0\fR" 4
 Bad formatted value in zone file line.
.IP " (5) \fB\s-1ERR_PARSE_BADOPT\s0\fR" 4
 Bad command line options.
.IP " (6) \fB\s-1ERR_SOCK_OPEN\s0\fR" 4
 Opening socket failed.
.IP " (7) \fB\s-1ERR_SOCK_BIND\s0\fR" 4
 Binding socket failed.
.IP " (8) \fB\s-1ERR_SOCK_LISTEN\s0\fR" 4
 Listening for new socket failed.
.IP " (9) \fB\s-1ERR_SOCK_ACCEPT\s0\fR" 4
 Accepting new socket failed.
.IP "(10) \fB\s-1ERR_SOCK_RECV\s0\fR" 4
 Receiving data on socket failed.
.IP "(11) \fB\s-1ERR_FORK\s0\fR" 4
 Fork failed.
.IP "(12) \fB\s-1ERR_FORCED_SHUTDOWN\s0\fR" 4
 Server shutting down

.SH SIGNALS
Any signal not explicitly mentioned is not explicitly handled. Meaning 
that they'll have their default actions.
.IP "\fB\s-1SIGTERM\s0\fR, \fB\s-1SIGINT\s0\fR" 4
Causes the daemon to exit gracefully with accompanying log output.  The exit
status will reflect the terminating signal appropriately.

.SH SEE ALSO
dnsd.zone(5)

.SH BUGS
No known bugs, robust af.

.SH AUTHOR
.P
Céline Wu       (celine.wu@epita.fr)
.P
Gabriel Chabot  (gabriel.chabot@epita.fr)
.P
Paul Poincignon (paul.poincignon@epita.fr)
.P
Raymond Haddad  (raymond.haddad@epita.fr)
.P
Romain Baguet   (romain.baguet@epita.fr)
.P
William Lin     (william.lin@epita.fr)

.SH "COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE"
Copyright (c) 2020 Bullshit Corp.
